Hello everyone and welcome to the regression section of machine learning part of the course.
Our first type of machine learning task is a regression test where we try to create a model to predict
a continuous value.
For example the price of a house the most fundamental type of regression algorithm is a linear regression.
Let's discuss the background of a linear regression and how it all works.
Do you want any deeper mathematical understanding of linear regression.
You can go ahead and check out chapters 2 and 3 of an introduction to statistical learning.
Let's discuss the history behind linear regression.
This entire idea all started back in the 1800s a man named Francis Galton Galton was studying the relationship
between parents and their children and in particular he investigated the relationship between the heights
of fathers and the heights of their sons.
What he discovered was that a man's son tended to be roughly as tall as his father.
However Galton's breakthrough was at the son's height tended to be closer to the overall average height
of all people let's go ahead and take an example of this.
Shaquille O'Neal was a famous NBA player is very tall.
He's 7 foot 1 inch or 2.2 metres tall.
If Shaq as he's known has a son chances are he'll be pretty tall too.
However Czech is such an anomaly in height that there's also a very good chance that his son is not
going to be as tall as Shaq or and it turns out this is the case.
Shaquille O'Neal son is pretty tall.
He's 6 foot seven inches but he's not nearly as tall as his dad who was 7 at one Galt who calls this
phenomenon regression as in a fathers sons height tends to regress or drift towards the mean or average
height of everyone else.
Let's go ahead and begin to plot out the sort of example let's cut to the progression with only two
datapoints which is the simplest possible example.
Here we have two data points.
X equals 2 and white was 4.
As one data point and that X sequel's 5 and y equals 10 is another data point.
These two little black gawks all we're trying to do when we calculate our regression line is draw a
line that's as close to every dot as possible for classic linear regression or the least squares method.
You only measure the closeness in the up and down their action.
Here we have a perfectly fitted line because it only had two points.
Now wouldn't it be great if we could apply this same concept to grasp with more than just two data points.
By doing this we could take multiple men and their sons heights and do things like tell Amanda how tall
we expect the sun to be before he even has a son.
And this is the idea behind supervised learning.
We're going to have a bunch of labeled data points create a model.
In this case in theory aggression and try to take unlabeled data such as a father's height and spit
back out labelled data are prediction of the sun's height our goal if linear regression is to minimize
the vertical distance between all the data points in our line.
So in determining the best line we are attempting to minimize the distance between all the points and
distance to our line.
There are lots of actually different ways to minimize this.
The sum of squares error some of absolute errors etc. but all of these methods have a general goal of
minimizing the distance between your line and the rest of the data points.
For example one of the most popular methods that we've just described is the least squares method.
Here we have a couple of blue data points along an x and y axes and we want to fit a linear regression
line.
And the question is how do we decide which line is the best fitting one we can go ahead and use the
least squares method which we discussed earlier.
This method is spitted by minimizing the sum of the squares of the residuals the residuals for an observation
is the difference between the observation the y value and the fitted line in this image the residuals
are marked by the red line.
The difference between the true data point in blue and your fitted model line the black Bagenal line.
Now let's shift our focus to regression metrics.
There are many regression metrics you can use to evaluate your regression model including things such
as your R-squared value mean absolute error or maybe mean squared error MSE in root mean squared error
are MSE.
Let's discuss some of them since We'll show you how to call them off a trained model in Sparke they
mean absolute error or E is the mean of the absolute value of the errors and the error is just the difference
between the value predicted versus the value you actually had as a true label and that's what that y
minus y hat represents.
The difference between the predicted value and the true value.
Then you just take the absolute value of that and the average so that sum divided by how many actual
points you predicted for the mean absolute error is the easiest to understand because it's basically
just the average error on average how far off were you.
Then there is the mean square error or MC and it's the mean of the squared error.
You take your errors squared them and then you take the average at that or the mean.
The MC is more popular than the mean absolute error because MSE will punish larger errors which tend
to be more useful in the real world.
And then one of the most popular ones is the root mean squared air or R and SE and so is the square
root of the mean of the square airs.
Basically the square root of what we just previously saw and the root mean square is more popular than
the MSEE because the root means square air is interpretable in the White units that label units that
you were actually trying to predict.
Now let's begin our understanding of regression with SPARC actually showing you a documentation example.
Afterwards we'll move on to a more realistic example and the exercise project freed fill out.
Thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture.